# Using Python 3.11 To Help Improve Driver Reaction Times

### In 2019, 38,000 people died in car crashes in America. In 2022, the number has risen to 42,000, a whopping 16%. As some of this team’s members begin to drive, we realize that the number will only increase. Just in the first week of driving, we have already witnessed many teenagers our age driving dangerously in the school’s parking lot. To solve this, we realize that as drivers, we need to be more aware of our surroundings and be more proactive when it comes to defensive driving. We realize that if we can’t make others drive better, we should at least make ourselves better at reacting in critical situations on the road by improving our split-second decision-making, reaction time, and peripheral vision. To approach this issue, we decided to make a program that trains all of these aspects. This program contains multiple modes so we can test our abilities and see which section or sections we need to improve on, and use the program accordingly.

#### As we transition into adulthood, driving becomes a necessary obstacle to overcome. When we first started learning, a difficulty we all faced was dealing with bad drivers on the road, who are frequently unpredictable and slow with reactions. Through extensive research as a team, we discovered that the average driving perception time is ¾ of a second. It takes even longer for drivers of less experience to perceive danger on the road. To help tackle this issue, we decided to develop a program that will improve a driver’s reaction time and identify what a driver needs to work on in order to be a safer member of society. Using this program, users can drastically reduce their reaction time to as little as 250 milliseconds. 

#### This Python game has the potential to impact skill development and awareness education. It ultimately improves the players’ reaction time, decision-making skills, and hand-eye coordination. These valuable skills translate to broader applications in real scenarios on the road that require precise actions. helps prevent accidents, ensures drivers become safer, and gives them an easy way to train themselves. The objective of this project is to reduce the potential risks of accidents by improving cognitive function. 

## Thus, through our knowledge of python, we were able to design a unique reaction time trainer, specifically designed to lower the fatality and frequency of road accidents through the development of reaction times. We hope that we’re able to use this program and increase its outreach to benefit everyone alike, and make the world a safer place for all. 

